# 💼 Java Interview Questions

This document contains interview questions covered during the Java Mastery journey.

---

# ☕ Java #001 - Introduction to Java

## Q1. What is Java?

Java is a high-level, object-oriented, platform-independent programming language developed by Sun Microsystems and currently maintained by Oracle.

---

## Q2. Who developed Java?

Sun Microsystems.

---

## Q3. Who owns Java now?

Oracle Corporation.

---

## Q4. What is WORA?

Write Once, Run Anywhere.

---

## Q5. Why is Java platform independent?

Because Java programs are compiled into bytecode, which runs on the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) available on different operating systems.


# ☕ Java #002 - JDK, JRE & JVM

## Basic

### What is JDK?

JDK is used to develop Java applications.

---

### What is JRE?

JRE provides the environment required to run Java applications.

---

### What is JVM?

JVM executes Java bytecode.

---

### What is Bytecode?

Bytecode is the compiled `.class` file generated by `javac`.

---

### Why is Java platform independent?

Because bytecode runs on any operating system that has a JVM.


# Java #003 Interview Questions

### 1. What is the entry point of a Java program?

```java
public static void main(String[] args)
```

---

### 2. Which method prints output to the console?

```java
System.out.println()
```

---

### 3. Difference between print() and println()?

- `print()` → Prints on the same line.
- `println()` → Prints and moves to the next line.

---

### 4. Can a Java program execute without the main() method?

A standalone Java application requires a `main()` method as the entry point.

---

### 5. Why do we use packages?

Packages help organize classes and avoid naming conflicts.